Oh man, I really appreciate Pastor Tim having given me these last three weeks and then today to preach about surrender.
And again, you know, I want to talk about how it's a daily process for all of us.
It certainly was a date to this morning when I woke up, I said, God, I surrender this message to you.
I surrender, you know, take, use my mouth, you know, and just speak the words that the Spirit has for me and for other people.
And in the first message in the series, remember we talked about the blessing of surrender.
And we talked about how you have to take a chance, you have to risk it all in order to surrender your life to Jesus.
And then Jesus, we're gonna take you on the greatest adventure that you've ever been on.
And then the second message, we talked about surrendering your time to Jesus and how important it is to make Jesus a part of everyday life.
And then last Sunday, we talked about surrendering your trust
to Jesus.
If you're going to surrender to someone, then you want to know that that someone is good.
If you're going to surrender to God, you want to know that God is a good God, that He loves you, that He cares about you, that He has a plan for your life, and His plan for your life is perfect.
And today we're going to talk about surrendering your thinking to God.
And we're going to kind of take a look at what some research shows about what Christians think.
And we're gonna talk about the benefits of surrendering your thinking to God.
And then next Sunday, Pastor Tim is gonna start a new series on Ephesians.
It's gonna be awesome.
And so I'm looking forward to that.
I hope you are too.
Well, like I said, we're gonna talk about surrendering your thinking to God.
And you know, one people have said in the past that Christianity has all the questions, has answers to all the questions that nobody's asking.
You know, and that kind of reminds me of a story I heard about a man that had a little bit too much to drink.
And he was stumbling down a road and he happened to see a preacher baptizing in the river.
He walked down to the river and he said, Mr, the preacher said, Mr, are you ready to find Jesus?
And the man said, yes, I am.
So the preacher grabbed him and he dunked him in the water, pulled him up.
And he said, son, did you find Jesus?
The man said, no, I didn't find Jesus.
The preacher was shocked, so he dunked him again, a little bit harder.
Once again, he pulled him up and he said, have you found Jesus, brother?
The cold water was beginning to sober the guy up a little, but still, he said, no, I didn't find Jesus.
By this time, the preacher was getting frustrated, so he dunked him and he held him under for 30 seconds.
When the guy started kicking and waving his arms, the preacher brought him up for air, and he said, I'm gonna ask you for the last time
Did you find Jesus?
The man wiped his eyes and got the water out of his nose and he looked at the preacher and he said, are you sure this is where he fell in?
Many times we're asking people if they want to find Jesus and they wonder if Jesus is even lost.
If we're going to present the claims of Christ to this generation,
We have to start talking in a way that they can understand and we have to start asking the right questions and listen to their questions.
So we know the answers that they're looking for.
You know, there's a bunch, there's a lot of bizarre behavior by a lot of Christians and a lot of people see that on the news or they read about it on the internet and things like that.
I mean, we live in a time when a lady can make a cheese sandwich and claim it bears the face of the Virgin Mary.
She turns around, she seriously sold it on eBay for $28,000.
In case you missed it several years ago, someone bought some M&Ms from a dispenser and they took, they looked at a certain M&M and they believed that it contained the face of Jesus.
And so they put it on sale on eBay also.
But the last time that I saw it was up to $3,100 bid for an M&M that somebody said looked like Jesus.
You know, there's some other crazy things.
There's one church that believes in a process called grave sucking.
And in that, the practitioners of that are part of the new apostolic reformation.
And they engage in this practice where they lie on the graves of deceased faith healers to absorb the anointing or the spiritual power that is left over in the grave.
And that really happens.
There's another one, gold dust and feathers.
There are prominent people in movements that claim that God caused gold dust, gold fillings or gold feathers to miraculously appear during worship services.
And then of course we're all familiar with the failed prophecies that have happened time and time and time again concerning the second coming of Christ.
I mean it first started, there was a book that came out, 88 reasons why Jesus
is coming back in 1988.
And I remember that when it came out because my dad was totally freaked out by that.
And he read the book and then he thought, holy moly, you know, if Jesus is coming back in 1988 and it's 1988, I better show up at church.
And he still didn't get saved at that point.
He wasn't saved for a while after that.
But that book, you know, caught his attention.
Well,
We're sitting here now in 2026, so we know that that didn't happen.
And whenever I hear about a Mary sandwich or a Jesus M&M, I just kind of cringe because there are millions of Americans out there who think Christians buy into hoaxes like that.
Many years ago, thousands of Christians perpetuated a hoax that Madeline Murray O'Hara and her atheist organization had a bill before the Federal Communications Commission to remove
all religious broadcasts.
It's a joke.
There was never a bill, but the FCC received 20 million letters about it.
That is $6.8 million spent by Christians on postage to address a hoax.
And we need to learn how to have a biblical worldview and how to surrender our thinking to Jesus Christ.
If we're going to reach not only our own generation, but the generations of our grandchildren and the ones that are going to come after them, we need to have churches full of serious minded, serious thinking Christians.
And so before we read this passage in Proverbs, I want you to just take a moment like we've done the last three Sundays and pray and say, God open my heart, open my mind so I can see and hear what you have for me today.
but we pray that you open our hearts and pray God that we have years to hear what the Spirit has for us today, God.
What I have to say is of no importance, but what you have to say is of paramount importance.
And so I pray God that the words that come from my mouth would honor and glorify you and God that we would all learn to surrender our thinking to you.
Just remove any distractions or
other thoughts that we might have about things we have to do today or this week and let us focus on what the Spirit has for us today.
For it's in Jesus' name we pray, amen.
We're going to look at Proverbs chapter three, verses five through eight.
In there he says, trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding and all your ways that knowledge him and he will make your paths straight.
That's obviously the verse that we talked about last week.
But then he goes on to say, do not be wise in your own eyes.
Fear the Lord and shun evil.
This will bring health to your body and nourishment to your bones.
You know, to see how thinking about God in the Bible, there was a survey done by George Barna and he wrote a book about it called, Thinking Like Jesus.
And there was a survey done
And he asked eight questions in the survey to get a gauge of what Christians thought or what Christians believed.
And so, you know, I don't want you, I'm going to put these up here and I want you to think about what would Lance want to hear or what would my husband or my wife want to hear.
But I want you to think about what do I actually think about this?
You don't have to yell out your answers or anything like that.
It's not going to, this test is not going to get you to heaven or keep you out of heaven.
It's just a basic test to check a biblical worldview.
So these were the questions.
Do absolute moral truths exist?
Is absolute truth defined by the Bible?
Did Jesus Christ live a sinless life?
Is God the all-powerful and all-knowing creator of the universe?
And does he still rule today?
And then they asked a few more questions.
Is salvation a gift from God that cannot be earned?
Is Satan real?
Does a Christian have a responsibility to share his or her faith in Christ with other people?
Is the Bible accurate in all of its teachings?
That's a basic test of a Christian worldview.
that Barna came up with, and I don't know what your answers were, but we're gonna talk about some of these things to see what the church overall thinks about the answers to these questions, and what Americans think about the answer to these questions.
But first, we ask ourselves, well, what in the world is a worldview anyway?
Barna did this research in the lower 48 states to find out the religious beliefs, and the results, like I said, are in a book entitled Think Like Jesus,
And whether or not you know it, you have a worldview.
Every single person has a worldview.
In fact, they may not be able to express it clearly, but a worldview is the way that you look at the big picture of life.
Barnas said, writes that a worldview is a mental and spiritual lens through which you view reality.
In his book, Now How Should We Live, Charles Coulson writes that a worldview is my personal beliefs about the world
that direct my actions and my decisions.
You know, a lot of times we make the mistake of dividing all of life into two categories, spiritual and unspiritual.
Like I was telling you, I met this fellow one time.
He was actually the song, the music pastor at a church where I was the youth pastor.
And we got to talking about business.
And he owned a business in town.
And he said to me, he said, Lance,
You know, I separate my business from my faith.
They're two different things.
And I was only like 20.
And I was thinking, that can't be right.
You know, what that tells me is maybe you're not being ethical in your business and you're trying to figure out a way to live with yourself for that.
And so you'd come up with this idea that, well, that's business over there.
This is my spiritual life over here.
And it goes into all kinds of different things.
This is what I think about over here.
This is my spiritual life over here.
And listen, to surrender to Jesus means you lay it all to Jesus.
You give your business to Jesus.
You give your heart to Jesus.
You give your family to Jesus.
You give your cars to Jesus.
You give your investments to Jesus.
You give your dinner to Jesus.
He wants it all.
And that's what it means to have a Christian worldview.
And that's what it means to surrender your life to God is that you no longer say, God, I'm going to deal with this over here the way I want to, but I'll let you have this over here.
And yeah, that is a lot harder than I just made it sound.
And I'm still trying to work on that myself because it's a lot harder than I made it sound.
Because all of us, because of our flesh and because of our worldly nature, we want to hang on to the world.
because the world is what we know.
We live it, we breathe it, we walk around in it every single day.
And so the world is what we know.
And Jesus is saying, let go of the things that you know and trust in the things that you can't see and I will lead your life to a better place.
But it's not easy for us to do.
If you have a biblical worldview, you understand that everything that happens in this world should be understood
from the basis of who is God and how is he relating to his creation.
When you have a biblical worldview, you filter every news report through it.
You view natural disasters through it.
You view the government through it.
You view social relationships through it.
You view marriage through it.
You view parenting through a biblical worldview.
And you have a biblical worldview about business and everything else in your life.
teaching, you know, electrician, plumbing, all the stuff, everything, you incorporate a biblical worldview because it filters everything.
So what do Americans really believe?
Only 4% of Americans interviewed hold a biblical worldview and only 7% who claim to be born again Christians hold a biblical worldview.
Is that, that's shocking, isn't it?
Because a lot of people who are Christians have spent a significant amount of time in church.
They spent a significant amount of time in Bible study.
They have spent a significant amount of time in prayer.
So how can only 7% of born again believers hold a biblical worldview?
It's not hard, right?
Because all we have to do is just
keep it in our default position and keep playing games with God in a way and saying, God, I know you want me to surrender this to you, but I don't want to surrender it to you.
And I'm not really sure the parts of the Bible I like, you know, those are great.
I'll obey those all day long.
The parts of the Bible that I don't like, however, I'm going to come up with a way to avoid those or to bargain with God about those.
If you wonder if education has an impact on the issue,
Researchers found that of adults who attended college, 6% had a biblical worldview.
While among those who never attended college, only 2% had a biblical worldview.
Most people would think that number would be flipped.
If you think all Protestant pastors have a biblical worldview, think again.
The survey found that only 51% of the pastors answered yes to all eight of those questions.
As you would imagine, police vary by geographical areas.
The states with the lowest percentage of people holding a biblical worldview are the states in the northeast, the New England states, and Louisiana, oddly enough.
And the two states that had the highest percentage of people embracing a biblical worldview were North Carolina and my home state of Texas.
And obviously what you believe about the Bible determines what you believe about moral issues.
So what did that say?
When asked if living together outside of marriage is acceptable, 62% of those who don't have a biblical worldview said it was okay, while only 2% who had a biblical worldview said it was not okay.
When asked if adultery is acceptable, those with a biblical worldview are 11 times less likely to describe adultery as morally acceptable.
Only 4% of Christians said adultery is morally acceptable.
44% of the population said adultery is morally acceptable.
That is almost half of the people in America
who say adultery is morally acceptable.
I mean, that is shocking to me.
It should be to you too.
We wonder why is the family disintegrating in our culture?
Well, if half the culture believes that you don't even have to be faithful to your spouse, there's a big part of your answer.
One out of every six adults, only 17% view humans, one out of every six adults view humans as divine beings or supernatural authorities.
Almost one out of every six adults in America believe that divinity resides within them.
That's unbelievable.
Of those people,
14% indicated that they believe God refers to the total realization of personal human potential or a state of higher consciousness that a person may reach.
Again, it's about me.
The other 3% claim that everyone is a God.
If you take those numbers and add them together, that means one out of every five people either believe that they are divine themselves or that divinity
resides in every single person on planet earth, and therefore there are nine billion gods.
I mean, I have a book of Egyptian gods and goddesses that I had to get when I was seminary, and it's only that thick.
We've come to a place now where one out of every five people believe that every person is a god.
That book would be stacked as high as the ceiling to try to get all that in.
Well, the news doesn't get a whole lot better.
60% of the people who describe themselves as Christians believe that there is only one supreme spiritual being.
He created and rules everything in existence.
60% believe in the God as he is presented in the scripture.
That means 40% of people who describe themselves as Christians do not believe
that there is only one God who created everything and rules over everything.
That number is almost half and half of Christians.
One half of self-identified Christians, 53% listed the God of the Bible as an existing and influential spiritual authority.
That's even worse than the 60%.
53% of Christians say
that God is a spiritual authority.
That means 47% of Christians do not believe that God is the spiritual authority.
A large share of the self-identified Christians, nearly one fourth, did not include Jesus as among the living, effectual, spiritual authorities.
One out of four
People who are Christians do not accept that Jesus is a living spiritual authority.
Among adults who believe that Allah exists and affects lives, 60% of those are self-identified Christians.
This likely relates to the prior finding that many Christians believe the names God and Allah refer to the same spiritual being.
Let me help you out there.
They do not, right?
They absolutely do not refer to the same spiritual beings.
But 60% of believers or people who identify as believers say that they do.
So what world view does the other 96% of people follow?
And there's a bunch of them in that book.
He discusses seven, but I'm only going to discuss three.
Many Americans embrace deism, even if they don't know what the word means.
Deism is the belief that there is a God, but he is uninterested in our daily lives.
He is in no way a personal God.
That he simply wound the clock of creation and history, spun it out into the universe, and he does not interfere with anything that happens with that clock.
He does not get involved in the affairs of mankind.
Some famous deists were Voltaire and Thomas Jefferson.
You can go and look at Thomas Jefferson's Bible where he cut out of his Bible all of the miracles that were in the Bible because deists did not believe in miracles because if God did a miracle, that would mean God interfered in the affairs of man.
And since God doesn't interfere in the affairs of man,
that he doesn't do miracles and so it's okay to just cut those right out of the Bible.
Just don't even worry about them.
Many Americans, probably a lot of people you know, believe that there is some kind of God up there somewhere, right?
But he has chosen not to be bothered by the mundane details of our lives.
And that is the exact opposite of what Scripture teaches.
Scripture teaches us that Jesus
through the power of the Holy Spirit resides in every single believer, and he absolutely cares tremendously about every single decision that you make, every single decision that I make.
He tries to lead me in the right direction.
He tries to guide me, like what kind of car should I buy?
What kind of home should I live in?
What kind of job should I pursue?
What kind of church should I belong to?
How do I treat other people?
How do I treat people at the grocery store?
How do I treat people who are gas station attendants?
How do I treat people who clean my house?
Right?
It's all those things.
He is more than, he is so much more than impersonal.
He is absolutely as personal as a person can get in your life and in mine is what the Bible teaches us.
Another common view is humanism, which is obviously also called naturalism.
This is most atheists and agnostics are humanists.
They believe that this world is all there is.
If anything is wrong with it, humans are gonna have to fix it because God doesn't exist.
Some famous humanists were Bertram Russell and Karl Marx, the founder of communism.
We run into humanists too, who just believe there's nothing, that the grave is the end.
that there's nothing that exists beyond that.
There are certainly no miracles that happen.
There is certainly no kind of God at all.
And even if there is one, he is certainly not personal.
He doesn't relate to people.
You know, he's up there.
There is no judgment to come.
You know, there is no such thing as hell.
There is no such thing as heaven.
There is this world right here.
And our job is to make it as good as we can for the time that we're on it.
Well, we have failed miserably.
Sometimes when I run into these folks, I ask them, what evidence is there in history that mankind can come together and work together to solve a problem?
There are very few, if any, indications in world history where massive groups of people could come together to solve problems.
Now, of course, you have people who work together.
You have people who
relate with each other, people who are interested in the same fields, and they come up with different theories of things, and they come up with inventions of things, and they work together to do that.
But where have you ever seen millions of people come together to work on something and it be successful?
I mean, if the world is left to us, we are in deep, deep trouble, and we see the effects of that all around us.
syncretism is the most common worldview of Americans.
It's not really a worldview but they take a little bit of Christianity, they take a little bit of Allah, they take a little bit of Buddhism, they take a little bit of naturalism and they kinda combine all the parts that they like and throw out all the parts that they don't like.
That's called syncretism.
One of the biggest issues in missions is syncretism.
because what happens a lot of times is you missionaries go into countries and they preach the gospel of Jesus Christ and people come to faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ but then what they do is they fold that up and then they put it in their pocket with all the other religions that they believe in.
Rather than forsaking the other religion and accepting Jesus, they simply add Jesus to what they already believed.
And it's a huge problem in global missions.
And it's caused us to change our strategy many times.
But the nation's largest ongoing world view research project reveals that the world view Americans are most likely to draw from is unknown to the people who turn to it.
Scientists have called it moralistic therapeutic deism.
This is what they believe.
Belief in a God who remains distant from people's lives.
We all know people like that.
I know a ton of people like that who believe in a God who's distant from people's lives.
People are supposed to be good to each other, right?
They're supposed to be moral.
I mean, that's a good thing, right?
Another thing that you can't really do without the power of the Holy Spirit, you can be nice to people for a while, but eventually you're going to mess up.
Because the only way we can love people like Jesus love people is if Jesus lives in us.
Otherwise, it's all human effort.
They believe that the universal purpose of life is being happy and feeling good about yourself.
That's life's purpose.
Be happy and feel good about yourself.
I mean, that is a shallow,
That is probably the shallowest world view I've ever seen, right?
Happiness depends on circumstances.
Next Sunday, if the Seahawks win, we'll be half-half happy.
If the Patriots win, we'll be mad, mad, mad, you know?
But happiness is a whim.
You can chase it, and you'll find brief moments of it, but there's a big difference between happiness and joy.
Joy comes from God.
Joy is a gift of the Holy Spirit.
It's a fruit of the Holy Spirit.
Joy is joy despite circumstances.
Happiness is totally circumstantial.
They also believe that God allows good people into heaven.
I've always thought about that.
You know, when I consider that particular thing that God allows good people into heaven, one of the questions that I often will ask somebody is,
How many sins does it take to become a bad person?
Like is it a thousand that you go from good to bad?
Is it a million?
Is it half a million?
I mean how many sins until you cross over that river and no longer are you a good person but you're a bad person and then what kind of God would not tell you the answer to that?
If God wants all good people to go to heaven, then he ought to say in his word, you have 500,000 sins and then you can go to heaven.
500,001, you don't make the cut.
So it's not sustainable that good people go to heaven because good is subjective.
And then they also believe that God places very limited demands on people.
God doesn't, you know, he doesn't really
want you to do anything.
He doesn't really have a calling for your life.
He doesn't have a calling for your church.
You know, God is not really, he's not really super involved in your life.
He doesn't care what you're doing.
Which is again, is the opposite of what scripture teaches.
And so, what are the benefits of a biblical worldview?
Well, what does it mean?
Another way to put this is, what does it mean to love the Lord with all of your mind?
And you must understand in order to do this that the mind is the control center of your life.
The heart, the word heart occurs over 800 times in the Bible.
Proverbs says, as he thinks in his heart, so is he.
You become what you think about the most.
And so that's why we need to surrender our thinking to God.
You know, if you use a computer today, you have to have virus protection.
And the reason you have to have virus protection is because there are a lot of people who want to hack into your computer to get the information off of your computer.
Now, if somebody hacked into my computer to get the information off my computer, they would be sorely disappointed because there ain't nothing on there.
But we all know what that means.
We have to have firewalls.
It's getting even worse.
We have to have a lot more protection even than we used to have.
because they're planning viruses in our technology.
Well, listen, in the same way, you have to guard your mind because Satan wants to plant a virus in your mind that distorts, disturbs, and damages everything that you think about.
The Bible says, above all else, guard your heart.
Now, when the Bible talks about the heart, it's really talking about the mind.
Because we know that we think with our mind.
We don't think with our heart.
Right?
But in Jewish thought, the heart is where the seat of emotions and intellect was.
They knew that it literally was in their brain, but they spoke about it as a matter of the heart.
And so that's what Jesus does.
That's what the Bible does all the way through.
Life begins with what you think and how you think.
So a thought, reap an act.
So an act, reap a habit.
So a habit, reap
reap a character, sow a character, reap a destiny.
To have a biblical worldview means that you allow God to control your thoughts.
Put it another way, you ask God to help you think like Jesus.
Philippians 2.5 says, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus.
So there are great things to think about
why we should have a biblical worldview and what advantage that is to us?
Well, thinking like Jesus liberates us from self-centered to God-centered living.
In Proverbs chapter three, verse seven, it says, don't assume that you know it all.
I mean, one indication of intelligence is that you know that you don't know it all.
I don't know how many of you have heard of the Dunning-Kruger effect in psychology, but the Dunning-Kruger effect basically says, the less you know about a subject, the more you are sure that you are right about that subject.
The more you know about a subject, the more you understand that there is so much more to learn about that subject.
And so you're not so dogmatic all the time that you're right.
And we see this all over our country today.
people all of a sudden waking up and they're marine biologists or waking up and all of a sudden they're constitutional scholars.
And we see this all the time in our culture.
That's the Dunning-Kruger effect.
The less you know about something, the more sure you are you're right.
The more you know about something, it means you're less, not necessarily less sure that you're right, but you are aware that there is a whole lot more to know than what you know.
As we grow older, right?
If we're not careful, we remain the center of our own little universe.
We want to replace, right?
When we surrender our life to God, we want to replace our selfish ego with our Creator.
And it's liberating, folks.
You don't any longer have to bear the weight of the world on your shoulders.
It's a tough job being God, right?
That's a huge burden to think that everything depends on me.
But you don't have to have that burden.
There's a man who came who said, cast all your cares upon me.
In other words, I'm God.
You're not.
So you don't have to take on the responsibilities of God.
You can leave those to me.
And how freeing is that?
Someone wrote this little poem about the self-centered life.
Oh, Lord, it's hard to be humble when you're perfect in every way.
I can't wait to look in the mirror because I get better looking each day.
One of my all-time favorite lines comes from the movie, Rudy.
And you may recall that Rudy's an undersized football player and he dreams of playing for Notre Dame.
And in the movie, he's befriended by a Catholic priest.
And in one of their discussions, the priest says, in 35 years of religious study, I've only come up with two hard, incontrovertible facts.
There is a God and I'm not him.
That's as simple as it gets.
There is a good God.
There is a loving God.
There is a sovereign God.
And I don't have to be him.
It's all about God.
When you have a biblical worldview, God becomes the center of your existence.
Thinking like Jesus also concentrates on knowing and loving God.
That Proverbs 3-7, the text says, run to God.
If you have a biblical worldview, then your concentration is on knowing God better, knowing Jesus better, learning to live like Jesus, learning to treat people like Jesus, learning to think like Jesus.
The Bible says in Mark chapter 1 verse 35 that it was Jesus' custom to get up before sunrise and go to a solitary place and pray.
He carried on a living, loving relationship with his father.
A biblical worldview doesn't define God as some kind of uncaring, harsh, heavenly ogre who is just waiting to strike you with lightning or to punish you.
That's not God.
Instead, a biblical worldview teaches us that we can know God and we can love God, and we're taught that we call Him Abba, which means Daddy.
The two most exciting facts that you'll ever discover is, number one, God exists, and number two, God loves you.
If you discover those two things, then you're a long way down the road to where you need to go.
I realize some people have a hard time accepting God's love.
You might be a person who thinks you have to earn God's love, but you can't earn it.
I want to tell you a story about the Roman Empire.
In the Roman Empire, there was a common and heartbreaking practice known as exposure.
If a baby was born with a disability or simply wasn't wanted, especially if it was a girl, the child
would simply be left outside to die.
He would be exposed.
And there was nothing wrong with it.
It was just how society worked.
Archaeologists have uncovered letters from Roman husbands to their wives to say things like, if it's a boy, keep it.
If it's a girl, expose it.
Imagine that.
But then something happened that shocked the Roman world.
This strange new group of people, followers of this crucified Jewish rabbi, started finding these abandoned babies and taking them in, feeding them, naming them, raising them as their own.
Why?
Because these people believed that every life mattered, that every life bore the image of God.
Those early Christians remembered the words of Jesus when he said, whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers and sisters as mine, you did for me.
And in doing that, they embodied the gospel because the truth is every one of us has been spiritually exposed.
We have been left outside the home exposed to the elements of the world.
exposed to the elements of the flesh, exposed to the elements of the devil.
But God did not leave us there.
Thank the Lord that he came for you and he came for me.
And he took me out of that and brought me into his home rather than leaving me outside to die.
The love that says, I go after the forgotten, the love that says you're not trash, you're mine.
Ezekiel 16 describes Israel like a unwanted baby.
It says on the day you were born, you were thrown out into the open field, but I passed by and saw you kicking in your blood.
And I said to you, live.
That's what God has done for you.
And that's what he's done for me.
Finally, thinking like Jesus designates healthy moral boundaries.
The last part of our passage says run from evil.
Your body will glow with health.
Your very bones will vibrate with life.
The problem with other worldviews is they don't really provide any absolute standards of right and wrong.
For instance, postmodernism says there are no absolutes.
All morality
is relative.
What may be wrong for you is not necessarily wrong for me.
That's why when Christians do evangelize and when Christians do participate in the public square that there is such backlash.
The backlash is really not any different than what happened with Adam and Eve in the garden.
The backlash is, in Adam and Eve's case, to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil means they themselves will from now on decide what is good and what is evil.
Not God.
Postmodernism is the same thing.
It has not changed in the history of mankind.
Postmodernism is again saying, I will choose what is evil.
I will choose what is good.
And nobody will make those choices for me.
A Christian worldview accepts that there is good and evil.
After September the 11th, 2001, the president said, we have looked into the face of evil.
And what allowed him to say that is the Bible says that murdering innocent people is wrong.
The only morality that will work is a morality based on absolute standards.
Now, there are things that the Bible is unclear about, and we ought to approach those things with humility.
But there are plenty of things that the Bible is very crystal clear about.
That if we take in, inform a biblical worldview that we will incorporate into our own morality.
C.S.
Lewis said, in order to know whether a line is crooked, you have to have seen a straight line.
Otherwise, how would you know?
It doesn't make sense that
everybody could have a morality of their own.
Nobody's going to break into my house and tell me, well, you know, it may be against your morality that I broke into your house, but it's not against mine.
The modern view says there are no moral standards.
They're just based on cultural differences.
It wasn't wrong for those terrorists to fly those jets into those buildings.
That's part of the world that they can sit in.
They're part of the world.
They're considered heroes.
It's just a morality.
That doesn't stand up to the test of logic or common sense at all.
We have to have a standard for absolute right and wrong.
And that standard is found in the Bible.
In order to know what that standard is, we have to read it.
We have to meditate on it.
We have to soak it in.
We have to memorize it.
We have to think about it.
We avail ourselves to teaching on the Bible.
We come to church where the Bible is taught.
We soak it in.
C.S.
Lewis, I've quoted many times, but he was born in Belfast, Ireland in 1998.
And as he preferred to call death, he was translated on November 22nd, 1963.
If that date sounds familiar, he died on the same day that John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas.
He fought for England in World War I.
Then he attended Oxford University where he graduated first in his class.
He taught for years at Oxford and Cambridge and was regarded as one of the greatest intellects of the 20th century.
Although Lewis was raised in a Christian home, during college he chose to become a vocal atheist.
He came to believe that Christianity is nothing more than ancient mythological systems, which is easily disproven, but something that a lot of people hear
As a professor, he was actively involved in ongoing conversations with his peers.
One of his best friends was J.R.R.
Tolkien, who wrote The Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings trilogy.
Tolkien was a Christian and he, T. and Lewis took long walks and talked about the possibility of the existence of God.
Tolkien insisted that even though the Christian story was similar to other ancient mythologies, it was the only story based on historical facts.
In other words, it was true.
As Lewis began to contemplate these long discussions, he eventually began a journey back to God.
He passed through a lot of mental steps that ultimately led him to believe in Jesus.
First, he came to believe there was an absolute, which was a spirit.
Then he came to understand that this absolute spirit could rightfully be called God, the creator.
For him, the next logical step was to understand that Jesus Christ was the incarnation of God.
Lewis wrote, for the first time I examined myself with a serious, practical purpose.
And there I found what appalled me, a zoo of lust, a bedlam of ambitions, a nursery of fears, a harem of fondled hatreds.
My name was Legion.
Of course I could do nothing.
I could not last out one hour without continual conscious recourse to what I call the spirit.
But the fine philosophical distinction between this and what ordinary people call prayer to God breaks down, Lewis said, as soon as you start doing it in earnest.
Lewis wrote what happened as he prayed.
He said, I gave in and admitted that God was God.
I knelt and I prayed, and perhaps that night the most dejected and reluctant convert in all of England.
I did not then see what is now the most shining and obvious thing, divine humility, which will accept a convert even on such terms.
The words that mean compel them to come in have been so abused by wicked men that we shudder at them.
But, properly understood, they plumb the depth of divine mercy.
Lewis said, the hardness of God is kinder than the softness of men.
And his compulsion is our liberation.
As he came to believe in God and Jesus, he realized that the nature of faith would not allow him to make a casual commitment to Christ.
He wrote, doubtless, by definition, God was reason itself.
But he could also be reasonable in the other more comfortable sense.
Not the slightest assurance on that score was offered me total surrender.
The absolute leap in the dark were demanded.
The demand was not even all or nothing.
The demand was simply all.
C.S.
Lewis is a shining,
example that you can possess both a brilliant mind and be a committed Christian at the same time.
The question really comes down to who is my king?
You know what I found in a lot of discussions that I have with people is that when you get down to the who is my king, my king is really a politician because if the Bible doesn't square with what the political
my political ambitions are, then sadly, what I've seen most Christians do is align with their political suppositions and ignore what the Bible says.
I want to tell you folks, a Republican president is not my king.
A Democratic president is not my king.
Wealth and success is not my king.
my family, even as much as I love them, is not my king.
Jesus is my king.
And He ought to be yours as well.
Well, we're going to close in a word of prayer.
And if you need to do business with God, if this series on surrender has stirred something in your heart and in your mind and you need to do business with God, you can grab me.
You can grab Pastor Tim.
You can grab
the elders.
You can grab the person that's sitting next to you.
You can come down front and you can pray.
You can pray right there where you are.
But I just want you to know, if God is wanting you to do business, today is the day to do business with God.
Don't put it off until tomorrow because tomorrow is not guaranteed.
Father, we thank You for this day and for this time we have to spend together, God.
Father, help us to think like Jesus.
Help us, God, to
have a worldview that considers you and Jesus.
And that changes everything.
God didn't direct us now, God.
For it's in Jesus' name we pray.
Amen.